This poem is in the public domain.

A pettiness.
And I have something to expiate:
Of life.
And so, I missed my chance with one of the lords

Now due to be crowned again.
Like a king in exile, uncrowned in the underworld,
For he seemed to me again like a king,

And I wished he would come back, my snake.
And I thought of the albatross,

I despised myself and the voices of my accursèd human education.
I thought how paltry, how vulgar, what a mean act!
And immediately I regretted it.

At which, in the intense still noon, I stared with fascination.
Into the black hole, the earth-lipped fissure in the wall-front,
Writhed like lightning, and was gone
But suddenly that part of him that was left behind convulsed in undignified haste,
I think it did not hit him,

And threw it at the water-trough with a clatter.
I picked up a clumsy log
I looked round, I put down my pitcher,

Overcame me now his back was turned.
Deliberately going into the blackness, and slowly drawing himself after,
A sort of horror, a sort of protest against his withdrawing into that horrid black hole,
And as he slowly drew up, snake-easing his shoulders, and entered further,
And as he put his head into that dreadful hole,

And climb again the broken bank of my wall-face.
Proceeded to draw his slow length curving round
And slowly, very slowly, as if thrice adream,
And slowly turned his head,
And looked around like a god, unseeing, into the air,
Seeming to lick his lips,
And flickered his tongue like a forked night on the air, so black,
And lifted his head, dreamily, as one who has drunken,
He drank enough

From out the dark door of the secret earth.
That he should seek my hospitality
But even so, honoured still more
And truly I was afraid, I was most afraid,

If you were not afraid you would kill him.
And yet those voices:

I felt so honoured.
Was it humility, to feel honoured?
Was it perversity, that I longed to talk to him?
Was it cowardice, that I dared not kill him?

Into the burning bowels of this earth?
And depart peaceful, pacified, and thankless,
How glad I was he had come like a guest in quiet, to drink at my water-trough
But must I confess how I liked him,

You would take a stick and break him now, and finish him off.
And voices in me said, If you were a man

For in Sicily the black, black snakes are innocent, the gold are venomous.
He must be killed,
The voice of my education said to me

On the day of Sicilian July, with Etna smoking.
Being earth-brown, earth-golden from the burning bowels of the earth
And stooped and drank a little more,
And flickered his two-forked tongue from his lips, and mused a moment,
And looked at me vaguely, as drinking cattle do,
He lifted his head from his drinking, as cattle do,

And I, like a second-comer, waiting.
Someone was before me at my water-trough,

Silently.
Softly drank through his straight gums, into his slack long body,
He sipped with his straight mouth,
And where the water had dripped from the tap, in a small clearness,
And rested his throat upon the stone bottom,
And trailed his yellow-brown slackness soft-bellied down, over the edge of the stone trough
He reached down from a fissure in the earth-wall in the gloom

And must wait, must stand and wait, for there he was at the trough before me.
I came down the steps with my pitcher
In the deep, strange-scented shade of the great dark carob tree

To drink there.
On a hot, hot day, and I in pyjamas for the heat,
A snake came to my water-trough

D.H. Lawrence - 1885-1930 (https://poets.org/poem/snake-0)

Snake
